when we enter a state of Crisis we must
figure out how we got there in the first
place Financial analysts are unaware of
why we have achieved this level of
fragility in the markets as debt
continues to compound if governments
continue to make the same mistakes we
will surely achieve the same results you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you today we are going to talk
about debt we are going to talk about
the crisis that we are in today I have
any issues to discuss as always
beginning with this commercial bank loan
creation year-over-year change remember
that this is the percentage
year-over-year change and not the total
amount of
loans regardless what we can see is a
decline less loans happening is not a
good thing for the economy there needs
to be that continuous increase in the
amount of loans given out people need to
buy homes people need to buy Big Ticket
items they need to open up businesses we
need to see an expansion yet the
year-over-year change shows a
decline this here is
worrisome because as we approach
these difficult
times we need something to help us grow
out of that and Loans essentially you
know you could look at it in two ways we
got to be realistic about it though and
realize that people are not buying Big
Ticket items with cash they're buying it
with loans if they're not buying or not
loaning then you would see these uh
obviously being a problem for us and
that's the way that it is and that leads
into
this the last time this happened we're
talking about commercial and Industrial
loans in bank credit it was 2008
financial
crisis I think we all know what happened
and then you look at the same
thing back around the doom
boom and bust and then we where we are
at
today showing a
clear clearly the same problem as in the
past two times but it's very
early but it is is a fact for the first
period of no growth for at least 6
months since the 2008 2011 aftermath of
the financial crisis and prior to that
after the early 2000s
recession that's a fact you can't change
that whether or not it's going to
reverse and pick up I don't know but it
seems to be pretty constant it's either
going up or it's going down going
up could it be going down
I don't know we're going to see what
happens but to me it's clear it's a
fact we need to have an expansion of
credit okay that's just the way this
economy
works but that's not happening now in
this particular instance it's starting
to
reverse if it reverses will it head back
into the same type of contraction that
occurred two times before for or will
this be something different I don't know
keep your eyes on
this millions of Americans don't want to
work part-time the US economy added
98,000 jobs in March the smallest gain
in nearly a year after adding more than
200,000 in January and February wait a
minute I was told that the economy was
doing well I was told that things are
starting to pick up
that jobs are coming back to the
US What's Happening Here what is this
all about have I been lied to yet
again I thought everything was just fine
unemployment fell to a 10-year low of
4.5%
wow I
mean so many people now are off the
books in terms of the unemployment rate
4.5% this is going to go down to 0%
practically the way that it's looking I
mean you you could have half the
population
unemployed
and the
numbers let's say 100% of the people
were unemployed and they'll be able to
show you a 0% unemployment rate that's
how that's how crazy these numbers are
they don't represent anything to do with
reality but the real unemployment rate
here we go includes part-time workers
who would rather be working full-time
and job Hunters who gave up searching
work was
88.9% although that was down from 9.2
okay so you're looking at 9% right I
think it's a lot higher than that but
let's just for a moment let's just say
9% that's what they
were looking at I mean this type of
percentage
is very very
serious doesn't account for a lot of the
calculations used in 1980
1990 but at the very
least we are looking at a more realistic
number part-time work is still uh
contentious alternative for many workers
Amazon's going to create 30,000
part-time jobs in the
US and of those 25,000 will be Warehouse
5,000 or homebased customer service
positions goes on so Amazon's creating
jobs that's great unfortunately they're
part-time and part-time jobs pay
part-time
salaries and this is not a good thing
for the future of the US because there
needs to be full-time good
wages and having that ability you you
don't want contract work you want
full-time employment you want people to
Be steady and stable so that they can
make investments into the future so on
and so forth this is what I see with the
economy I'm just trying to just tell it
like it is I don't want the economy to
do bad people always say that I think
it's funny people say you know
fearmonger and you you know you're
inciting this to get worse and worse
look wouldn't it be nice to be able to
take the money that you earn your
savings and everything else put it into
a stock that gives you dividends and you
just get paid over and over again the
stock
appreciates and you just every quarter
you just get this paycheck in your bank
account out I mean wouldn't that be nice
and easy it would be so easy it' be so
great but I'm not going to do that
because I'm
concerned I'm worried about the
possibilities that there's
bail-ins that your
stocks as far as I'm
considered these are not
secured at all
there is no telling what they'll
do
and anyway I'm not going to rent let's
move
on this here I thought this was good
this is from visual capitalist a great
great
site you're looking
at how people are spending their
money over time what they're spending
their money on and it just shows you
it's might be hard to read here but
essentially what we see is
these different categories uh Alcohol
Tobacco Education Health Care so on and
different years so survey as of
different years 1941 up to
2014 on the um Y axis you see the amount
of money being
spent
okay what I see here is marginal
decrease in tobacco for
example looking at Healthcare increase
over the years
very
clear one of the things oh let's let's
look at this here clothing declining I
think this is largely doing parts of the
slave labor offshoring jobs food price
is declining I believe that's um to do
largely in part with the Agra business
with processed foods things like that I
think that's why and hosing has
Skyrocket
in you know the past decades
skyrocketing certain things have
declined
marginal
decreases but you look at it Health Care
drastic expansion housing drastic
expansion and people their actual
disposable income has declined
significantly why because you're
spending more on Healthcare spending
more on housing you need these things
you certain things you need
and a lot of these needs not the wants
the needs have
increased you see the actual amount of
money that has been spent you know the
cheap processed food garbage maybe
that's declined in price but the actual
produce has increased
dramatically all right budget negotiator
struck a deal late Friday that could
make New York the largest state to offer
tuition free love that word free let's
put some quotes around that free public
higher
education you're going to be able to go
to university for free that's great
right sort of evens the playing field so
that individuals who couldn't afford to
go to
school um College universities they'll
be able to do that and you know
I could see in one way how that's
good right now we have a trillion doll
bubble in the
US
for for the uh student loans expanding
to be one of the biggest bubbles
continuing and you're going to be able
to hide that in such a way because
there's not going to be a loan
necessarily you're just going to be able
to go you just apply and you get in and
then that's the way it
is I think this is a big
mistake because there's no such thing as
free anything nothing in life is free in
this
way the government is just getting
bigger and bigger and bigger and what is
it about education that people don't
understand you don't get good education
in most cases you
get powerful propaganda
and that's what school is about it's
about really programming people into
becoming obedient slaves the best
education you get is the one that you do
on your
own the books that you read in your own
time all of the school that I went
through I didn't learn not even not even
1%
of the amount that I had learned with
the countless books that I had read
after my educ so-called education
finished and I'm sure most of you are
feel the same
way I took it upon
myself to take book after book after
book and the books that I wanted to read
I didn't have to tell you know have that
school forced feed me some
garbage I went on my own
I read the books I you know went down
the rabbit
hole and I continued to do so and I hope
that people do the same thing look
people want to go to school because they
want to get their 9 to5 job they want to
get as good of a job as possible right
they don't want to have
to
work that 9o5 earning let's say $30,000
a year when ultimately they can work a 9
to-5 job job making $100,000 a year if
possible I see it as you know a
different situation different topic for
this video I'm not let's let's just
continue and all I'm going to say is
things have changed over the years it's
not what it used to be and the
government is going to expand as a
result of this okay let me just move on
last but not least unless you've been
living under a rock you know what has
happened the US sent over 59 tomahawk
missiles into
Syria the air base as a response
apparently to a nerve agent
attack
okay Trump is apparently reported to be
saying that he would do it again as a
response Iran and Russia threatened to
react to the US aggression in
Syria and Boris Johnson said Putin you
got to pull your troops out that's not
going to happen
obviously they this is a
quote we will respond to any aggression
by the US in
Syria that's
powerful This concerns me this is this
is real I mean I've been talking about
this for years since 2012 I think I've
been talking about this and people have
said you know you're a Monger this and
that whatever doesn't matter it it could
happen any day any moment right
now this could escalate to World War I
very quick the US has been sticking
their nose in to Syria and look at
what's happened with Iraq look at what
has happened to Yemen look at what has
happened
to just just
name the list goes on and on the
expansion of the war Wars going on into
uh North Africa even further down into
Africa we could see the troops being
expanded it's a policy that goes far
beyond any Administration it just
continues this is bad news it's
risky and you know I wanted to really
talk more about this I wanted to make
this the title of the video but YouTube
doesn't like that too much but I'm going
to bring it out anyway I can't put the
link the description below but I'm sure
you've been reading all about this
seeing it in the
news I'm just speaking out against it I
think this is
terrible I don't know what really
happened it could be a false flag all
I'm going to say is that we have no
business sticking our nose into what's
going
on in these countries Middle East North
Africa anywhere we don't have any
business in it we should protect our own
borders and you know funding Rebels who
just so happen to be Al-Qaeda just so
happen to be Al nura is it you
know Islamic state is it caliphate is it
anything okay whatever name you want to
call it I don't care these
individuals are
doing a lot of damage over there we're
funding it we are training them we are
now reportedly even on the ground I
don't know what's going on we should get
out of there this could quickly quickly
escalate to World War
II and I'm really worried I want to know
what your thoughts are on this as well
as the rest of the video if you found it
informative please give me a thumbs up
share it wherever you can that helps me
a lot when you comment on the video that
helps me as well I try to respond you'll
never see another YouTuber out there who
responds more than me I respond to
people why because you took the time to
comment to me and to others so I take
the time to reply to those comments I
hope you appreciate that very much
that's something that I believe so
strongly in you see all these other
YouTubers out there other analysts that
come on they get interviewed these
people are the guru they know everything
they know everything that's going on
apparently I don't play like
that I believe that what you have to say
is very important and I do take it
seriously last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my books the money GPS and my
new release global economic collapse
even more
informative so the first book that's
about the four asset classes and how to
profit profit from that it's called one
of the themes in there is the money GPS
formula that's how to take your assets
and how to have enough passive income
coming from these assets to pay off your
expenses the second book the new book is
more about well familiar topics but more
about the becoming self-sufficient
reducing your monthly expenses and in
doing so the two of these together the
money GP strategy from the new book and
the money GPS formula formulate this
great Synergy and I know that many
people who have read both books will see
that and we realize whoa what a
revelation we have here truly truly mean
that so check those out you can go to
Amazon they have a look inside
feature so you can actually flip through
the pages of the book and see if you
like it take care
if you're still here a couple people
have um said there's some issue with the
sound let me know if you have issues
with the sound on this video
particularly it wasn't coming out of
either the left ear or the right ear for
some people it was very low volume let
me know I tried to do some things
hopefully I fixed it let me know please
thanks